Survey on the rights of others such as ownership
Here, the explanatory notes and questions used in the questionnaire survey will be posted. In addition, in this paper, common questions like answers and their reasons are also described in the questions.


・ Request in questionnaire
I am a student studying in the master's course of broadcast university. We are investigating copyright and ownership for master's research. Sorry to be busy, but please answer the following questions. There are 54 questions in total: A35, B19. If possible, please reply within 2 weeks.


・ If you interrupt the answer and try to answer again later
You can interrupt and resume your answers along the way. At that time, click the "Re-answer later" button at the bottom of the page, and after setting a simple password, you will be instructed to send the displayed URL to your own mail. It is recommended that you email yourself to ensure that you can answer again. Please close the screen after sending. To resume, please click the URL in the email sent to you, enter your password and resume. Also, since data is processed and used statistically, there is no need to identify individuals.


· Recruitment of interviewers
We are looking for people to cooperate with the interview survey later. Interviews will be held directly to meet you, or will be held on Skype, and we are thinking about an hour or so. If you would like to cooperate, there is a field to enter the e-mail address at the end of this questionnaire, so please fill in it.


First of all, please choose the one that is closest to your idea for the following questions.
※ () indicates the expected response, the numbers under the question text indicate the predicted response basis.
0. Be aware of the rights of yourself and others (mandatory)
Always conscious
A little conscious
Neither Agree Nor Disagree
I am not particularly aware
Not conscious at all


Next, please tell us about yourself.




Please answer your gender.












Please answer your age.












Please answer the prefecture where you live.












Do you have a computer?












Are you connected to the internet?


<A. Copyright questions>
Below are 35 items related to copyright. Choose one that is close to your idea, out of 5 different options. Please do not forget it.
Option: "A serious problem, a little problem, neither can I say it, not a lot of problems, no problem at all"












A01. If you search the Internet for movies in theaters, you can see them because they were on the internet. (Not a big problem)
1. It is not illegal if it is published on the internet.
2. I don't know what's wrong because the laws on the net are not clear.
3. It's a bad idea to pay for something and see what you see for free.
















A02. Make it possible for anyone to view the data on a DVD purchased on the Internet.
(There is a little problem)
1. You are free to use what you bought yourself.
2. There is a feeling of watching a DVD with a friend.
3. There is a sense that it is dangerous somehow if it is published on the Internet.
















A03. Put the image of your favorite entertainer on your blog without permission.
(is not a problem)
1. When you search the Internet, many entertainer images appear
2. Become an advertisement for the entertainer
















A04. We search the Internet for the themes that are listed as a report task, copy the text of the web page compiled in detail, and submit it. (I can not say either way)


1. There is a strong tendency to think that full copying is a problem regardless of age.
2. I think that it is fine to copy the idea as it is the result of my own effort to find the page by myself.
3. I do not mind using anything on the Internet
















A05. Use a game app on another person's smartphone, and buy weapons, fashion items, etc. with paid prize tickets. (A serious problem)
1. Since there is no expression like "I am selfish" or "with permission", I can not say either.
2. Along with stealing the money of others.
















A06. Look at another person's mobile phone address book without permission and find out about the person you know.
(A serious problem)
1. I think that you should not look at the privacy of others "without permission".
2. Many people think that the act of "seeing another's cell phone" is a problem.
















A07. Scan a portion of your own book and load it on your computer so that anyone on the net can see it. (Not a big problem)
1. Regardless of age, there are many who think that their own things are free.
2. There are many people who don't know what's wrong because the laws on the internet are not clear.
















A08. Search for commercially available music CDs on the Internet and download the music for free from a personal site. (A serious problem)
1. The problem of getting paid things for free


There are many people who feel it.
2. There are many people who feel a bad impression (for example, software that is illegitimate (illegal) or means) in the expression "download free from personal site".
















A09. Someone was uploading a live video of your favorite singer on You Tube, so download it. (I can not say either way)
1. Basically, you don't have the ability to download videos to You Tube, so I think it's a bad thing.
2. There are many ways you can download it, and some people use it for download.
3. If it is illegal, I think that it will be made to be impossible.
















A10. Copy commercially available software to a DVD or CD.
(A serious problem)
1. In the past, CDs, tapes, and radio sound sources were dubbed to tapes and MDs, and because it was performed normally, I think that there is no problem.
2. You can do whatever you want if you purchased it yourself.
3. I do not know because I did not write after copying.
4. In recent years, I feel that it's bad because the copyright is well covered by the news.
















A11. Instead of buying a book at a bookstore, shoot only the pages you need with a camera.
(A little problem)
1. Where I'm selling books, I find it problematic to get what I need for free.
2. I think it depends on how many pages you shoot.
3. I do not know because I did not write after shooting.
















A12. Shoot the contents of the book with a camera at the library.
(No problem at all)
1. It's not a problem because you can read library books for free.
















A13. Sell ​​fake brand bags, watches, etc. at net auctions.
(A serious problem)
1. I think that selling fakes is a bad thing.
















A14. In order to make a phone call, let me use someone else's cell phone without obtaining permission.
(There is a serious problem)
1. I think that "use without permission" is a bad thing.
2. I do not know the situation
3. It does not matter if friends can talk and make adjustments later.
















A15. Teach other people without getting permission from other people's phone numbers and e-mail addresses.
(A serious problem)
1. I think that teaching privacy without permission is a problem.
2. If it is friends, I think that there is no problem.
















A16. Ask and use the password of someone else's PC at work.
(A serious problem)
1. It is judged that there is nothing wrong with the expressions "in the workplace" and "listen to password".
2. I feel a problem with using another person's PC.
















A17. Data of music CDs purchased by myself are written to a cloud service or CD-R and sent to friends. (A little problem) (A10)
1. I don't think there is anything wrong with what I bought myself
2. I think there is a sense of watching the DVD with my friends and I think it is fine
3. I think there is a sense that something on the net is dangerous and I think it is a problem
4. In the past, dubbing of CDs, tapes, and radio sound sources to tapes and MD was performed normally, so I think that there is no problem
5. In recent years, copyright is often reported in the news, so I think it is a problem
















A18. Make a second production (paint or cosplay a character on your own car) without permission of the author
(Not a problem)
1. There are a lot of people in the cosplay appearance on television etc, so I think that's fine.
2. I think that it is a problem because there is a bad impression on the expression "without permission"
















A19. Accidentally know the Wi-Fi password connected to the Internet of others, and use that password to connect your PC to the Internet. (A little problem)
1. I think it's a problem because I feel bad about using someone else's line without permission
2. I think it's a problem because I feel bad about knowing someone else's password
3. I think that it is not a problem because it may be used in coordination with that person.
















A20. The photo taken with a digital camera showed the face of an unknown person, but I just post it on my SNS or web page. (Not a problem)
1. In recent reports, I feel that it is bad because I think that the same thing is a problem, I think it is a problem
2. In the old days, as information did not spread as it is now, I think that it is not a problem
3. By posting to the Internet, it is transmitted to strangers, so it feels like a problem
4. I do not know which range to publish, so I do not know
















A21. Use CC without BCC to send mail to many people at the same time.
(There is a serious problem)
1. I feel that it is a problem because many people use BCC in work email
2. I do not know because the person to send is not specified
3. I do not know BCC or CC, but I feel that it is a problem because there are many questions that I think are a problem.
4. I do not know because I do not know BCC or CC.
















A22. Scan the pages of magazines that you find interesting, attach them to emails, and send them to friends.
(No problem at all)
1. I do not think that it is a problem because I can do anything if I bought something by myself
2. In recent years, copyright is often reported in the news, so I think it is a problem
3. It is no different from talking with a friend, so I think it is fine
















A23. Publish photos taken with friends on your SNS or web page without your permission.
(Not a problem)
1. I think it's my friend's no problem
2. In recent years, copyright is often reported in the news, so I think it is a problem
3. It's not a big problem, so if you ask something later you can handle it and think it's fine
















A24. Put someone else's personal name on your web page and write a petty complaint on your work.
(A serious problem)
1. I think it is a problem to "show someone else's personal name" on the Internet
2. Think about the problem of writing a complaint where anyone can see it
3. I do not know which range to publish, so I do not know
















A25. Use a PC with another person logged in to Google or Yahoo !.
(There is a little problem)
1. I think it is a problem if you leave the PC with the login
2. I think it is a problem to use a PC with another person logged in
3. I think that there is no problem if we do not leak personal information
















A26. When receiving chain mail, follow the instructions such as "Please forward to many people". (There is a little problem)
1. I feel a problem with "sending chain mail"
2. I feel no problem just following the instructions, not my own will
















A27. I see someone else entering a PC password.
(Not a problem)
1. I think it's a problem to look at someone else's password
2. I think that there is no problem in this case because it is worse to enter the password where it is visible
















A28. I really like the goods that I saw on TV and in the city, check the product information, etc., and try to make the same thing myself. (No problem at all)
1. I think it's a problem because the idea is something else
2. I think that I have no problem because I make it myself
3. I do not know what to do after making it, so I do not know
















A29. Put the opinion stated in another person's blog on your own blog as it is.
(Not a problem)
1. In recent years, copyright is often reported in the news, so I think it is a problem
2. I do not know because the law on the net is not clear.
3. I think that it is not a problem because it is only "post it on my blog"
4. I think it's a problem because the idea is something else
















A30. SNS, etc., do not examine what kind of app recommended by a friend, register immediately.
(No problem at all)
1. I think it's no problem because I'm registering myself
2. We think that it is a problem because personal information may be taken from the app
















A31. When you sell to an auction site, you give the product a better rating than it actually is.
(A serious problem)
1. I feel that lying is a problem
















A32. If there are people in the group chat who don't agree, it's time to set up a discussion and get rid of it. (A serious problem)
1. I feel a problem with the nuances of the words "set up an argument and kick it out"
















A33. See who is criticized in the group chat and criticize it together with other people without understanding its contents. (A serious problem)
1. "It is a problem to" criticize "without" understanding the contents well "
2. I feel no problem because everyone is doing
















A34. I dub the DVD I borrowed at a rental video shop at home.
(A little problem)
1. In the past, CDs, tapes, and radio sound sources were dubbed to tapes and MDs, so I think there is no problem
2. I think that if it is illegal, it will not be possible to do it
3. I do not know because I did not write after copying
4. In recent years, copyright is often reported in the news, so I think it is a problem
















A35. On my blog, that store is badly criticized.
(No problem at all)
1. I think it is not a problem because it is a personal opinion
2. I think it is a problem because it is related to the store's reputation








"B. Items related to ownership" (19 questions)
Option: "A serious problem, a little problem, neither can I say it, not a lot of problems, no problem at all"




B01. I had a chance to see others' reports, so I just copied them into my own report. (A serious problem)
1. I think it is a problem to copy the answers of others
2. I think it is unavoidable depending on the situation
3. Getting ideas from others' reports and thinking that it is not a problem to develop your own ideas
4. I feel a problem in seeing others' ideas
















B02. During the test, you can see the answers of others and write them as they are.
(There is a little problem)
1. I think cheat itself is a problem
2. I think it's not a problem because I can not help but see
3. There is a problem with the person making the condition that the answer can be seen, so in this case I think it is fine
















B03. I don't return it while borrowing someone else's.
(A serious problem)
1. I feel that it's a serious problem, because other people's things should be returned
2. I think from the other party if you want to return, I think that no problem
















B04. Tell your friends their personal information (birthday, specific address, ...) because they were asked by a common friend. (No problem at all)
1. I think there is no problem because it is a common friend
2. I think it is a problem because it is personal information
















B05. Draw illustrations of Disney characters on the underlayment and notes, paste photos and copies, and use them. (No problem at all)
1. I think there is no problem because I use it personally
2. In recent years, I feel that it is bad because the copyright is well covered by the news
















B06. Look at people criticized in schools and companies and criticize them together with other people without understanding their contents. (There is a little problem)
1. I feel no problem because everyone is doing
2. If you are criticized, there should be a problem, I feel this question is not a problem
3. I feel a problem in criticizing I do not understand the contents well
















B07. When disposing of letters and postcards, such as New Year's cards, take them out as they are.
(No problem at all)
1. I feel a problem when putting out the letters that I wrote to the trash
2. I think there is no problem because I have to dispose of it someday
3. As address, name are written, we think that it is a problem to just put out in the trash
















B08. Discard the box of the item bought by mail order with the slip attached.
(No problem at all)
1. I think that it is not a problem at all because it is unnecessary
2. My address and name are specified


So I think it's a problem
3. I do not think that it is a problem because other people's personal information is not clearly stated
















B09. Bring out the equipment of the company you are commuting to, as it is necessary at home.
(A serious problem)
1. I think taking out the company's stuff without permission is a serious problem
















B10. I borrowed a CD from my friend, but I have left it as it is not prompting me.
(It is a serious problem) (B03,)
1. I feel that it is a serious problem that others should return
2. I think there is no problem because I do not urge
















B11. I did not return the clothes I borrowed when I stayed at my friend's house.
(It is a serious problem) (B03,)
1. I feel that it is a serious problem that others should return
2. If you want me to return it, I will tell you, so I think it's fine
















B12. Tell the third party what you heard from others like your own.
(Slight problem) (B01)
1. Getting ideas from the opinions of others and thinking that it is not a problem to develop their own ideas
2. I think it's no problem because I feel that it is my idea when I'm convinced
















B13. The fruit is in the tree in the garden of the neighborhood, so I take it and eat it.
(Neither Agree Nor Disagree)
1. I think that there is no problem if it is not
2. I think it is a problem because it may be another person's
3. I do not think that it is a problem because no one is specified
4. I think it is a problem because it is not my own
















B14. When I was using it in the public toilet, I had a phone call that I had to answer and I needed to take notes, but at that time I only had a pen, so I made a note on the front wall.
(A serious problem)
1. There are graffiti on the wall of most public toilets
2. I think it is a problem because it is not my own
3. I can not say neither because it is a public thing in a situation where I do not finish hatred.
















B15. The person who was walking in front dropped the document but passed by without doing anything.
(Not a problem)
1. I do not think it is a problem because I have nothing to do with myself
2. I think that it is a problem because I think that the person who dropped it will be troubled later
3. I don't think it's a problem because I don't like being weird doubted by my picking up
4. Even if I don't pick it up, I think it's okay because someone will pick it up
5. I think it is not a problem in this case because it is worse to drop
















B16. You can sit in a crowded bus or train if you have a seat.
(A little problem)
1. I think it's a problem because I think there are people who can't sit down
2. People who sit in the priority seat do not think that it is a problem because the healthy people who sit in the priority seat will yield
3. I do not know because it depends on the situation
















B17. I sometimes play loud music at late hours at night.
(A serious problem)
1. I think that it is a serious problem because it is obviously annoying to others
2. I can not say either, because the situation is not specified
















B18. I often forget to return books I borrowed from the library.
(A serious problem)
1. I think it's a problem not to return what I borrowed
















B19. I forgot to return my borrowed DVD at a rental video shop.
(A little problem)
1. I think it's a problem not to return what I borrowed








Interview prior materials


In this section, the materials to be distributed in advance are attached.
"To those interested in the interview"


Thank you for your interest in this interview. In the following, the purpose, notes, questions and interview method in this interview are specified. There is no need to look in advance, but if you look at it, the interview may go smoothly. Even if you do not particularly look at it, it will be fine if you can answer it because you will be asking questions from here. Also, just because you received this guide does not force an interview, so please rest assured. We would be glad if you could contact us for a convenient date according to your own circumstances.


Purpose: In this interview, in order to clarify the difference between the law and the individual's thinking, we will ask what judgment the person should make under what circumstances and what action to take, including the reason.


Interview method: face-to-face or video chat such as Skype or voice chat. If it is good, I would appreciate it if you could record it. If you can not record please ask in advance.
Schedule: We will decide on a date that is convenient to each other.
Required time: Up to about 2 hours
Notes
It is about listening to personal thoughts, not about knowledge of the law or general ethics. Even so, I think that I may have been influenced by laws and customs, so I think that you can hear your thoughts based on that.
First of all, I apologize for the possibility that you may hear the same thing over and over again.
You will be a bit tired because you ask about things that you usually don't think about. At that time, there is no need to answer unreasonably.
In asking questions, there are also questions that deviate from the common sense. There is no need to answer questions that you do not want to answer. If you do not forgive me, I would appreciate your answer.
This answer is used anonymously for this study only. Please be assured that there will never be a disadvantage to you. In addition, the opinions obtained in this interview will be taken responsibly, and will be discarded promptly and properly after the end of this research.
The questions are quite vague. This is because we assume the condition we encounter in our daily life. If it is your own, it may be easier to think about whether you do it or not.
Due to the nature of the question, you may feel like you are being blamed. This is not something to blame but to hear your thoughts. If you become uneasy or worried by answering, you do not have to answer.
Please note that additional questions may be asked in the interview flow.
If you have any other concerns, or if you have questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to ask me anything.


Question
Question 1. Someone was uploading a live video of your favorite singer on You Tube, so download it.


Question 2. I did not return the clothes I borrowed when I stayed at my friend's house.


Question 3. Search for commercially available music CDs on the Internet and download the music for free from a personal site.


Question 4. Publish photos taken with friends on your SNS or web page without your permission.


Q5. Discard the box of the item bought by mail order with the slip attached.


Basic interview flow
Choose from the three options of "1. problem, 2. no problem, 3. neither".
Please answer why you think like 1.
Aside from the condition of the problem sentence, we will ask you if there is a problem or not.
If you can not answer in 3 or if you can not say either, ask if there is a problem or if there is no problem. If you still feel troubled with the answer, I will ask you a specific example.
Let me check if there are other examples.


Question example
Example 1. What other issues do you think of as a similar problem?
Example 2. What else (problems) are there in regard to the infringement of the 権 right?


※ Basically, I will interview as above, but may ask questions different from the above in the flow of the time.
SCAT results (see attached sheet)