Conclusion
Criminal crimes are prohibited by law as criminal law crimes, and those who are caught there will be jailed. On the other hand, with regard to morals and manners, there are many cases in which some people use it for themselves and others are cramped, regardless of intention or not, because they will not be imprisoned. In this paper, we considered including manners and morals violations that would not be subjected to the punishment this time.


Here we outline what has been done in chapters 1 through 7 of this study.
In Chapter 1, criminal law crimes tend to decrease and the crime situation has seen some improvement, but on the other hand, cyber crimes have tended to increase, and information education was started in 2003 as one of those measures However, it has been taken up that cybercrime continues to increase even after information education has begun.
From these, Chapter 2 showed that the purpose of the criminal law is to investigate the possible infringements in daily life such as manner violations and moral violations, including criminal offenses.
Chapter 3 shows that, among the numerous infringements, property rights, specifically, focusing on events that are found in daily life, are investigated and surveys and interviews are conducted as the means.
Chapter 4 describes the detailed schedule and implementation method of the survey.
Chapter 5 shows the results of the questionnaire survey and the interview survey, and describes the items that were analyzed. Specifically, the principal component analysis was performed based on the results of the questionnaire survey, and a question containing a large number of principal components having many unique opinions due to personal experiences and the large number of the principal components was identified. And I analyzed the conversation obtained by the interview and extracted many opinions. They were classified by KJ method and got seven ideas.
In Chapter 6, the seven ideas are divided into "the behavior that violates the law" and "the behavior that deviates from the common sense".
In Chapter 7, using the seven ideas clarified in Chapter 5, “the way of thinking about the situation when it is easy to take action against the law” and “the situation when it is easy to take action against the common sense” I considered the idea. In each case, about "the way of thinking of the situation when it is easy to take the action which violates the law", the thinking of five situations and nine cases which constitute it can be considered, and the "the situation when it is easy to take the action contrary to general common sense" The three ideas of the situation and the four cases were considered. They are the seven ideas grouped in Chapter 5.
Here, "the seven ideas" classified by the KJ method in Chapter 5 and "the case of 13" and "the ideas in the seven situations" considered in Chapter 7 are briefly summarized as follows.
Seven thoughts (KJ method)
"The idea of ​​law, theory of thought" "The idea of ​​the net" "The idea of ​​the public thing" "The idea of ​​privacy" "When there is no maliciousness" "When there is temptation" "Minority to be ignored"
In the case of 13 (combination of A)
"In case of personal use" "When there is temptation" "When prepared to receive social sanctions" "When damage is small" "When there is no bad faith" "When not knowing the situation" "Nobody about the event "If you can not judge good or bad" "When many people help you" "If many people think the same way" "If you have a clear idea" "If the target is clear" "The nature of the place is clear" "If the environment is highly anonymous"
Seven situational ideas (combination of B)
"If you have a good reason, you may handle the thing freely." "Be responsible for your own actions." "If the damage is acceptable, act." "No malicious act is allowed." "Many "We support the faction" "We will act without damage considering things with clear conditions" "We will interpret things with clear conditions for ourselves"


And the conclusion is shown in Chapter 8 below.


This study dealt with everything from criminal law crimes to matters that are not regulated by laws such as manner violations and moral violations. Through questionnaire surveys and interview surveys, we considered "7.1 Thinking about the situation when it is easy to take action that violates the law" and "7.2 Thinking about the situation when it is easy to take action contrary to common sense". If you look at the contents, in "7.1 Way of thinking of the situation when it is easy to take action that violates the law", we consider monogot as the decided thing, and "Section 7.2 of the situation when it is easy to take action contrary to general common sense" In the way of thinking, I found that I think of things as things that adjust things.
In "7.1 Thinking about the situation when it is easy to take action that violates the law", you think that you are the main subject, you are the one who judges and acts on it, and you are the one who takes responsibility. it was thought.
<Thought of the situation to become basis>
"If you have a good reason, you may handle the thing freely." "Be responsible for your own actions." "If the damage is acceptable, act." "No malicious act is allowed." "Many Support the faction "
On the other hand, even in “7.2 Thinking about the situation when it is easy to take action contrary to general common sense”, I think that I am the same as being considered as the subject, but I assume various conditions from clear things to unclear things. It was thought that there was no problem in the range where I acted.
<Thought of the situation to become basis>
"If you have a good reason, you may handle the item freely." "The condition is clear and act without damage." "The condition is clear interpreting it for you"




From the above, it is considered that the way of thinking of the law is the reverse of "the way of thinking of the situation when it is easy to take action against the law". It is not the "oneself is considered as the subject, and it is the one who takes responsibility for himself / herself to take the responsibility himself" and it is not the above-mentioned, "thinking monogoto decisively," monogoto according to the thing prescribed by the law. It is an idea to decide. On the other hand, it became clearer than this research that an individual's thought considers monogot in coordination. This conclusion, although the law stipulates clear crimes, does not stipulate manners and morals, and it is clear from the personal experience that it is left to the discretion of the individual.